Welcome, my name is Anjana Vakil.
And hopefully you are in the right place,
if you're here to talk about JavaScript.
So this course is JavaScript First Steps.
We are here at the amazing
FrontendMasters HQ in Minneapolis.
And some of us are dialing in
from all over the place, and
some of us are tuning in to
the video course at home.
So welcome, everybody,
wherever you are joining us from.
As I said, my name is Anjana, and
you can find the materials for
this course online at
anjane.dev/javascript-first-steps.
So that is where you will find all
of the examples and the slides,
if you'd like to follow along.
One of the aims of this course is to
provide a really solid foundation,
whether you're coming
from other languages or
whether you're brand new to programming,
which I want this also be accessible to.
This course should hopefully stand
you in good stead to go on and
keep digging deeper in other courses
on the rest of Frontend Masters and
whatever other platforms you learn on.
So this course, it's called JavaScript
First Steps, and that indicates that
this is not going to teach you everything
that has ever existed in JavaScript.
This is not going to be an experience
where after this time together,
we are done learning JavaScript.
That's not the case.
Learning JavaScript, as with learning
anything, is really an infinite process.
This is a lifelong thing.
And that is true of
JavaScript in particular,
because JavaScript is a living language.
JavaScript, just like English or whatever
other languages we speak in the human
natural language world, JavaScript
evolves, JavaScript is always developing.
Just like we have new slang dropping every
year, JavaScript also has new features
coming out,
changes to the way the language works.
So by the time you would be done learning
JavaScript, it would already be different.
So this is really intended to
be kind of a jumping off point.
What we're gonna try to do
is lay some foundations,
set some really solid principles and
kind of mental models in our minds,
that can help us then go on and continue
this infinite lifelong learning journey.
The way that we're going to try
to focus our attention in this
course is through a few projects,
because I think that is the way
often we can really understand
how to apply our knowledge.
And that brings up a distinction
in learning that I just wanted to
mention quickly.
Which is that sometimes in classrooms,
we have to learn things, facts about
the world that we just have to memorize,
just in case we ever need that fact.
Like we're on Who Wants to be
a Millionaire, and somebody asks,
what year France invaded England,
William the Conqueror or something.
But I learned that in school, and
no one has ever asked me that.
I've never actually needed
that piece of information.
So instead, what we're probably going to
focus more time on in this course is what
you could call just-in-time learning.
So when we're trying to do something and
we wanna learn what we need at that
point in time in order to do that thing.
There's gonna be a little bit of a mix
of both, but we're going to be trying to
focus on the practical needs that we have,
and learning things as we need them.
Yeah?
>> Someone in chat wants to know how
Anjana discovered JavaScript and
why you liked it.
>> How did I discover JavaScript and
why do I like it?
That is a great question,
thank you for asking.
I discovered JavaScript,
so a little bit about me,
I don't have a traditional
computer science education.
I studied philosophy and linguistics and
things like that before
I got into computers.
And I got into the software industry,
now I work as a software developer and
developer advocate.
I got into the industry through a really
great community called the Recurse Center,
in New York.
Recurse.com Is a website I love,
where you can read all about this place.
It is a community and programming retreat,
kind of like a writer's retreat but
for programmers.
And so when I was there in 2015,
I decided,
because I saw a bunch of my batchmates,
my co-participants,
doing cool things with JavaScript,
I decided I really wanted to dig in.
And so that is where I kind
of got exposed to JavaScript.
And then I also found out about this
thing called functional programming,
which you might have seen.
I also have a course on Frontend Masters
called Functional Programming First Steps.
And I found that JavaScript actually
worked really nicely with the functional
programming paradigm, which I also learned
from some of my co-participants and
facilitators at the Recurse Center.
And so that's how I kind of
fell in love with JavaScript,
because I found it through kind
of a functional programming lens.
So we're not gonna talk a ton about
functional programming, or much at all,
really, in this course,
but it is, I think,
a really great partner for JavaScript,
is the functional programming paradigm.
And so one of the hopes of this course is
that you also, by the end of this course,
will have the tools you need to go on and
start learning functional programming and
related technologies.
Things like frameworks like React,
which are very inspired by functional
programming principles, and other
technologies like TypeScript, for example.
So I think that that is sort of what
inspired me to get into JavaScript.
And I hope that after this course, you
all might be interested in going on and
learning more about that
side of things as well.